[MUSIC]
After solving the bin packing
problem when items are large and
there are few distinct sizes.
Let us now move on to the less
special special case when
items are still large but
there are many different sizes.
Large items, many different item sizes.
This is perhaps the most important
section in this entire chapter.
What is the idea?
The idea, as in Knapsack,
is to use rounding.
We have many different item sizes,
we want few different item sizes.
We will round the sizes.
After we have rounded item sizes,
we have reduced the problem to
the special special case that
we already know how to solve.
How do we round sizes?
We round them up.
This way,
if the rounded items fit in a bin,
then the unrounded items also fit in the
bin, they also respect the bin capacity.
How are we going to round?
For example,
let's say that the bin capacity is 100.
The minimum item size, 10%, so let's say
the minimum item size is at least 10.
What will we do?
It is natural to say, let's round
the items up to the nearest integer.
And then,
we only have 90 possible item sizes and so
we can solve the rounded
problem in probably no time.
And the solution will be a feasible
solution for the original problem.
So that is the most natural attempt to
solve bin packing with large item sizes.
It is inspired from the Knapsack algorithm
that we saw in the previous chapter.
But how good is it?
How good is this?
We can picture it as,
we have a bin of capacity 100,
all item sizes are between 10 and 100.
We slice the item sizes
using integer points,
and then for each size,
we round it up to the next integer.
This is the actual size,
some fractional number,
that's the rounded size, almost the same.
The item size is only
increased by a little bit.
The size increases by a little bit.
So, how much does OPT
change when you do this?
In Knapsack, we argued that when we
changed the values by a little bit it
didn't have much of a consequence,
unfortunately.
Look at this.
Let's say we have capacity 100.
Imagine we have 50 items
of size 1/3 of 100.
And 50 items of size, say, 2/3 of 100.
What is the optimal solution for
this input?
The optimal solution is, obviously,
to pair up the items of size
100*1/3 with the items of size 100*2/3.
If you put two of these items together,
it fills a bin exactly.
And so with 50 bins, 50 items plus
50 items fit in 50 bins, that's OPT.
And now, let's look at the rounded input.
Rounded input, the items of size
33.333333 are rounded up to 34.
The items of size 66.6666666
are rounded up to size 67.
Oops.
They no longer fit,
we can no longer put two of them together.
All the 67s, have to be alone in
the bin because 67 plus 34 is 101.
And then,
the items of size 34 go two to a bin.
So what does this mean?
It means that for the rounded input,
the OPT value of the rounded
input will be 50 plus 25, 75.
This is really bad, really bad.
We want something that is
very close to optimal.
We want the rounding to
have a very small effect.
And here, when we rounded, indeed, the
item values only changed by a little bit.
But OPT changed by a large amount.
This is very bad rounding.
So this rounding fails.
Now what?
We need to find another kind of
rounding and this is adaptive rounding.
Where does it come from?
It's a new idea, a new idea.
A new idea happens and here it is.
This is perhaps the most important
slide in this entire week,
in this entire chapter.
Okay, start from the input, the input.
That's the top line.
Item sizes, at most B, the bin capacity,
at least B/10.
Here are my items here on that scale.
What do we do?
We will make a few groups
of equal cardinality.
Group one, after solving the items,
the smallest items.
Another group with the next
few smallest items.
Here I have three groups.
Then, I round all the items in
the same group to the same value.
Namely, I round them up and up and
up to the maximum size in this group.
These four items,
their size is rounded up to the size
of the maximum, max size in group.
Same thing for the next group.
These four items we round their
size up to what, to this.
And the next group, these four items,
their sizes up to this.
And what if it doesn't quite fit,
we don't care, that's a detail, it's.
So, that's adaptive rounding.
We round items up to a value that
depends on the other items in our input.
Observe.
The number of distinct item sizes is what?
It's the number of groups.
The minimum item size is what?
It's still greater than B/10.
So as long as we have a constant
number of groups, we're in good shape.
We have a reduction to
the previous problem.
Let's go directly to the general case.
Assume now that the item sizes are at
least the bin capacity times epsilon.
I need to work towards
an approximation scheme.
The algorithm first sorts the sizes.
Next, makes groups such that each group
has cardinality n times epsilon squared.
How many groups do we have?
One over epsilon squared.
Then, in each group, round all the sizes
up to the max size in a group.
Finally, solve the rounded problem,
as we saw previously.
And then we output
the corresponding packing.
This is our algorithm for large items.
In this algorithm, what is interesting
is this adaptive rounding.
The output is a packing
of the input items.
All sizes are greater than the certain
fraction of the bin capacity.
And the number of distinct sizes
is less that a certain constant.
Therefore, the runtime is polynomial.
But as usual, we have the question
of the quality of the approximation.
How good is it?
What we will prove very soon is that the
value of the output, the number of bins
used by the output is at most OPT
times 1 + a big O of epsilon.
So, in this part,
we have designed a good algorithm for
the case when all items
are large in bin packing.
In the next section,
we will analyze it and prove that it is
indeed a Knapsack approximation scheme.